hi I'm John ganley from cosmos I'd like
to welcome you to our restaurant cosmos
has been in Sarasota for over 15 years
we are now in our new home which is at
the corner of clark and honore right
near i-75 and we've always specialize in
Italian comfort food a lot of people
know is for our wood fire brick oven
pizza we also prepare signature of
pastas specialty salads and
a lot of other different entrees not
exclusively Italian we do have some
multicultural twist to our cuisine we
have a few Asian influences we have a
few American influences as well in
addition to our regular menu we have a
very extensive gluten-free menu over 50
items that are gluten free with free
pizza with free pasta many gluten-free
salads and some gluten free entrees
we've been members of the original since
2003 fact I think we're one of the
charter members many things that I like
about being a member of the originals I
enjoy the sense of teamwork that many
original members are not in competition
with each other and I like the fact that
we share resources hey welcome to the
KitchenAid cosmos today chef alfredo is
going to be making a couple of our
famous wood fire brick oven pizzas we're
going to start off with a margherita
pizza and after that we're going to make
a Quattro formaggi or four cheese's okay
well to make the margarita pizza we're
going to start off with by stretching
the dough and we do make our dough every
day fresh in our kitchen after that
we're going to add some shredded
mozzarella cheese
and then our version of a margarita
pizza has four dollops of tomato sauce
along with some fresh chopped tomato
then it goes into the wood-burning oven
this oven we've been cooking with for 15
years now it burns at about seven or 800
degrees so the pizza cooks very quickly
the end result is when you cook at that
high of a temperature that you wanted
with a very crisp crust after the
margarita pizza comes out of the oven we
finish it with some fresh grated
Parmesan cheese some fresh basil and
around the edge of the pizza on the
crust we put extra virgin olive oil and
that is cosmos famous margarita pizza
okay now we're going to make our Quattro
formaggi p2 which means four cheese's
this is a white pizza any no sauce the
four cheeses that go on to this pizza
our mozzarella fontina cheese which is a
slightly nutty flavor crumbled
gorgonzola cheese gorgonzola is an
attack
mild blue cheese and then some fresh
diced tomato all right the quadric for
logic beats is finished we're going to
put it on the plates going to top it
with shaved parmesan cheese and some
extra virgin olive oil
there you have it is a Quattro formaggi
pizza
and these are our finished pizzas thank
you so much for joining us today in the
kitchen at cosmos
you